R code for the article “Comparison of Bayesian and frequentist methods
for prevalence estimation under misclassification”
================
Matthias Flor

<!-- This markdown document has been generated by knitting an R markdown file.-->

This R project includes all relevant data and code used for the study.
The project has been organized with the help of the ProjectTemplate
package (v0.9.0) and adheres to its directory layout.\[1\]

All of the analyses have been run already (and some took a long time to
complete\!), so instead of re-running them you may prefer to just look
at the script files in the `src` directory and the generated plots in
the `graphs` directory. The validation study’s configuration can be
inspected in the `libs/globals.R` file. For more details on the
contained directories and files, see [Project
structure](#project-structure) below.

# Prerequisites

To load the project, follow these steps in order:

1.  First clone the repository, for example by typing
    
    ``` sh
    git clone https://github.com/BfRstats/bayespem-validation-code.git
    ```
    
    in a terminal.

2.  Make sure you have the software JAGS\[2\] installed on your system.

3.  Start R (if you are using the RStudio IDE, you can just click the
    `bayespem-validation-code.Rproj` file). All subsequent steps are to
    be executed within the R environment.

4.  A number of R packages is required. You may install them by calling:
    
    ``` r
    install.packages(
        c("ProjectTemplate",
          "data.table", "dplyr", "dtplyr", "lubridate", "magrittr", "stringr", "tidyr",
          "ggplot2", "hexbin", "cowplot",
          "Hmisc", "snow", "snowfall",
          "rjags", "runjags", "coda",
          "mcr", "broman",
          "bookdown", "broom", "ggResidpanel", "knitr", "kableExtra", "latex2exp", "rmarkdown")
    )
    ```

## Software versions used for the study

**R session info:**

    ## R version 3.6.3 (2020-02-29)
    ## Platform: x86_64-pc-linux-gnu (64-bit)
    ## Running under: Ubuntu 18.04.4 LTS
    ## 
    ## Matrix products: default
    ## BLAS:   /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/blas/libblas.so.3.7.1
    ## LAPACK: /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/lapack/liblapack.so.3.7.1
    ## 
    ## attached base packages:
    ## [1] parallel  stats     graphics  grDevices utils     datasets  methods   base     
    ## 
    ## other attached packages:
    ##  [1] rmarkdown_2.1         latex2exp_0.4.0       kableExtra_1.1.0      knitr_1.28            ggResidpanel_0.3.0    broom_0.5.6          
    ##  [7] bookdown_0.19         broman_0.70-4         mcr_1.2.1             runjags_2.0.4-6       rjags_4-10            coda_0.19-3          
    ## [13] snowfall_1.84-6.1     snow_0.4-3            cowplot_1.0.0         hexbin_1.28.1         ggplot2_3.3.0         tidyr_1.1.0          
    ## [19] stringr_1.4.0         magrittr_1.5          lubridate_1.7.8       dtplyr_1.0.1          dplyr_0.8.5           data.table_1.12.8    
    ## [25] ProjectTemplate_0.9.0
    ## 
    ## loaded via a namespace (and not attached):
    ##  [1] Rcpp_1.0.4.6      lattice_0.20-41   assertthat_0.2.1  digest_0.6.25     R6_2.4.1          backports_1.1.7   evaluate_0.14    
    ##  [8] httr_1.4.1        pillar_1.4.4      rlang_0.4.6       lazyeval_0.2.2    rstudioapi_0.11   webshot_0.5.2     readr_1.3.1      
    ## [15] htmlwidgets_1.5.1 munsell_0.5.0     compiler_3.6.3    xfun_0.14         pkgconfig_2.0.3   htmltools_0.4.0   tidyselect_1.1.0 
    ## [22] tibble_3.0.1      qqplotr_0.0.4     viridisLite_0.3.0 crayon_1.3.4      withr_2.2.0       MASS_7.3-51.6     grid_3.6.3       
    ## [29] nlme_3.1-148      jsonlite_1.6.1    gtable_0.3.0      lifecycle_0.2.0   scales_1.1.1      stringi_1.4.6     robustbase_0.93-6
    ## [36] xml2_1.3.2        ellipsis_0.3.1    generics_0.0.2    vctrs_0.3.0       tools_3.6.3       glue_1.4.1        DEoptimR_1.0-8   
    ## [43] purrr_0.3.4       hms_0.5.3         yaml_2.2.1        colorspace_1.4-1  rvest_0.3.5       plotly_4.9.2.1

**JAGS:**

    ## You are using R version 3.6.3 (2020-02-29) on a unix machine, with the RStudio GUI
    ## JAGS version 4.3.0 found successfully using the command '/usr/bin/jags'
    ## The rjags package is installed

# Project loading

1.  Set the working directory to the directory where this README file is
    located (this should already be set correctly if you used the
    `bayespem-validation-code.Rproj` file to open the project):
    
    ``` r
    setwd("PATH_TO_README_DIRECTORY")
    ```

2.  Load the ProjectTemplate package:
    
    ``` r
    library(ProjectTemplate)
    ```

3.  Then load the project by typing
    
    ``` r
    suppressPackageStartupMessages(load.project())
    ```
    
    You’ll see a series of automated messages while ProjectTemplate does
    the following:
    
      - Load the project configuration.
      - Load all required R packages.
      - Source all helper scripts in the `lib` directory.
      - Read in all data files stored in the `cache` directory.
      - Recreate the simulated parameter and data sets.

Once that’s done, the project has been fully loaded and is in a state
where all variables are available in the global environment for
inspection.

# Project structure

A quick run down of the directories and files contained in the project.

## cache

Contains cached data files in `.RData` format and `.hash` files that
ProjectTemplate uses to check if a data file is up to date while
caching..

## config

  - `global.dcf`: ProjectTemplates’s configuration settings.

## data

  - `01-generate-datasets.R`: Code to generate the simulated parameter
    and data sets.

## graphs

PDF and PNG versions of the figures generated by scripts in the `src`
directory.

## lib

  - `globals.R`: Configuration of the validation study (number of
    parameter sets, etc.)
  - `01-helpers.R`: Various helper functions.
  - `02-ci4prev-Reiczigel_et_al.R`: Code to calculate Clopper-Pearson,
    Blaker, Sterne, and Lang-Reiczigel confidence limits (code adapted
    from Reiczigel, Foldi, and Ozsvari (2010) and Lang and Reiczigel
    (2014)).
  - `03-parallel-ci.R`: Code to calculate confidence intervals in a
    parallel setup (i.e., for multiple CPU’s).

## src

Code for the different analyses undertaken in the study. The file’s
names should be quite self-explanatory.

  - `01-calculate-Rogan-Gladen-estimates.R`
  - `02-calculate-conventional-CIs.R`
  - `03-run-Bayesian-prevalence-estimation.R`
  - `04-calculate-average-bias-and-coverage.R`  
  - `05-run-Deming-regressions.R`
  - `06-generate-Fig2.R`
  - `07-generate-Fig3.R`  
  - `08-generate-Fig4.R`
  - `09-generate-LaTeX-tables.R`
  - `supplementary_material/10-regression.Rmd`
  - `run-everything.R`

# Replicating the study

The full study is configured via `libs/globals.R` to have 1,000
parameter sets and 1,000 replicates for a total of 1,000,000 data sets.
You can run each of the analyses in the `src` directory simply by typing
`source("src/FILENAME.R")`. If you want to really re-run everything,
make sure to source the files in the order indicated by the numbered
filenames.\[3\] Running
`rmarkdown::render("src/supplementary_material/10-regression.Rmd")` will
produce a supplementary regression analysis HTML report. For
convenience, an R script is provided in `src/run-everything.R` that
includes all steps to reproduce the study.

If you want to check whether everything works before replicating the
full study, you may switch to the `toy-study` git branch which is
equivalent to the full study but has just 20 parameter sets and 20
replicates for a total of 400 data sets (again, configured via
`libs/globals.R`).

# References

<div id="refs" class="references">

<div id="ref-Lang2014">

Lang, Z., and J. Reiczigel. 2014. “Confidence Limits for Prevalence of
Disease Adjusted for Estimated Sensitivity and Specificity.” *Preventive
Veterinary Medicine* 113 (1): 13–22.

</div>

<div id="ref-Reiczigel2010">

Reiczigel, J., J. Foldi, and L. Ozsvari. 2010. “Exact Confidence Limits
for Prevalence of a Disease with an Imperfect Diagnostic Test.”
*Epidemiology and Infection* 138 (11): 1674–8.

</div>

</div>

1.  For more details about ProjectTemplate, see
    <http://projecttemplate.net>

2.  <http://mcmc-jags.sourceforge.net/>

3.  **Warning:** Depending on your hardware, the script
    `src/03-run-Bayesian-prevalence-estimation.R` will probably take at
    least days to finish.
